content/docs/guides/how-to-add-podcast-recommendations-with-podroll.mdx, before:

---
title: "Add Podcast Recommendations with Podroll"
author: "Daniel J. Lewis"
description: "Learn how to recommend other podcasts through your own with the Podcasting 2.0 Podroll tag."
---

# How to Add Podcast Recommendations with Podroll

_Powered by `<podcast:podroll>{:xml}`_

People discover new podcasts best through recommendations from people they trust. You can use the `<podcast:podroll>{:xml}` tag to add recommend other podcasts your audience might enjoy. These can be your own or someone else's!

Podcasting 2.0 apps can use your Podroll to show your podcast recommendations to your audience.

Here is how to add your own podcast recommendations:

1. Find the podcasts you want to recommend, either through your podcast-publishing tool or manually find the GUIDs by [searching for the podcasts here](https://podnews.net).

2. Add these podcast GUIDs to your Podroll/recommendations list, or [adapt the RSS code from here](/podcast-namespace/tags/podroll).

3. Confirm your choices or paste the full code block into your podcast's RSS feed before any `<item>` tags.

4. **Publish your changes!**

[Read the technical details](/podcast-namespace/tags/podroll)

Commit message:

Podroll - more examples
More examples added including some inline images.

content/docs/guides/how-to-add-podcast-recommendations-with-podroll.mdx, after:

---
title: "Add Podcast Recommendations with Podroll"
author: "Daniel J. Lewis, James Cridland"
description: "Learn how to recommend other podcasts through your own with the Podcasting 2.0 Podroll tag."
---

# How to Add Podcast Recommendations with Podroll

_Powered by `<podcast:podroll>{:xml}`_

People discover new podcasts best through recommendations from people they trust. You can use the `<podcast:podroll>{:xml}` tag to add recommend other podcasts your audience might enjoy. These can be your own or someone else's!

Podcasting 2.0 apps can use your Podroll to show your podcast recommendations to your audience.

## How it can look

![Pocket Casts showing recommendations](/images/guides/podroll-pocket-casts.webp)

As above, Pocket Casts shows these in the app under "You might like". You can learn more [in the Pocket Casts website](https://support.pocketcasts.com/knowledge-base/podroll-podcast-recommendations/).

Podpage websites [will show them](https://www.podpage.com/updates/podroll/) under "podcasts we love". Buzzsprout's podcast websites [also show them](https://buzzcast.buzzsprout.com/231452/podrolls).

Podnews podcast pages [show recommendations](https://podnews.net/podcast/i4ji5) from both the creator of a show, but also from creators who recommend it - so you see even more shows you might enjoy. Podnews also keeps a list of [most recommended shows](https://podnews.net/podcasts/recommendations).

## How to add your own podcast recommendations

![Buzzsprout UI for podroll](/images/guides/podroll-buzzsprout.webp)

You may be able to add your own podcast recommendations in your own podcast hosting company. In Buzzsprout, for example, log in to your dashboard, and go to "Podcast Info", then choose "Podroll" in the menu. Here's where you can see a list of shows you recommend, and you can hit the big plus button to add another.

## How to do it manually

1. Find the podcasts you want to recommend, either through your podcast-publishing tool or manually find the GUIDs by [searching for the podcasts on Podnews](https://podnews.net/search).

2. Add these podcast GUIDs to your Podroll/recommendations list, or [adapt the RSS code from here](/podcast-namespace/tags/podroll).

3. Confirm your choices or paste the full code block into your podcast's RSS feed before any `<item>` tags.

4. Publish your changes!

[Read the technical details](/podcast-namespace/tags/podroll)
